well so um hey everyone today we are
going to have Dan clotee Oh talk about
advanced search algorithms he's done
some work on some stuff with Monte Carlo
tree search and other kind of
sophisticated things so I think he's a
good person to ask about this so okay
yeah so today I'm talking about search
okay I guess up to this point in the
class outside of some dynamic
programming we've covered with sort of
so you have your soft necks you pick the
best word out of the softmax and you
just choose that oh but we probably can
do better than that oh this doesn't
really give you any of what's going on
deeper into the sentence so when you
just read an ad code you might not
necessarily get the better sentence so
this is where search comes in you're
going to search your I guess output
space and try to pick a sequence that is
better than just reading the decoding um
my guess is kind of oh I guess doesn't
make it over that's kind of a motivating
example
[Music]
your jersey and everything else and then
Gibson has freakish probability 0.4 0.3
you're going to look at just new and the
probability of the two combined in New
York and New Jersey is greater than
should go to generate then you're
probably going to generate New York to
go to New York but if you do some sort
of search essentially finding that one
step down the line because frequently
so I guess one of the most basic search
algorithms is being searched so in size
and the spins are going to maintain the
N best paths through your search base
then each time you step you take each
path you do a full sort of soft next
expansion of that you take the top and
paths out of the entire space of all of
your expanded paths and this is the
junior being you sort of repeat this
until you finish decoding so you can
sort of see an example here where this
is a beam search so there's a lower
score so you drop that from your beam
then you expand hey both a and B then
you pick the top - I don't those do this
Oh got put in the wrong place
oh so when you're doing beers like my
say you're doing a shift reduce parser
if you're doing this generatively forget
you need to generate don't worry
so you're having diverse shifts the size
of your vocabulary and then you'll have
I had both other actions so this actions
based is significantly unbalanced and
this can lead to search failures is sort
of at each step you need to expand to
softmax equal to the size of your team
so you've never been as two more
thousand it's this cool to slow down
your decoding the next one is oftentimes
the top choices for example you can have
an apple the Apple stuff like this so
you're not really getting much diversity
whistlin is how much you can truly
improve your results
oh the next one was the question fast in
the previous class let's say you're
doing machine translation
do you have variable length so outputs
that are shorter are going to have
higher probability than of the sort that
are longer which means your point
ultimately once your sentences to be
about the same size I was I guess the
gold standard sentences um sort of leave
your pumpkin talks about last time where
even though you're improving model
squirt you could hurt your performance
against an evaluation metric so machine
translation has the target weight and if
you're sort of have a bias towards
picking short sentences you going to be
pretty nervous quarry um so I'm sort of
going to go through the yeast and talk
about how to solve them so back to them
dealing with miss parity in this case
we're doing a shift reduce parsing
tasks where reduce is
which lets River parentheses brackets so
let's say you had to put energy in there
shift will move would throat generate a
word and move that inside the
parentheses and close sway any specific
time you have actions of shifts the
cultural capsize you have actions of
okay equal to the number of labels like
possibly new dataset like you know NPV
people whatever give that Minu your case
and you have closed so this religious
like or you could sleep on the ballots
to set of actions on your good treatment
shift as one action you ships in which
case do you have like 10,000 ships boom
so this this is the problem illustrated
here where this is worth going through
the entire sequence and plug the
probability of doing each of these
actions are appropriate time and because
there are so many words in your vocab
the probability of shifting any specific
word is very and it starts shifting crap
so there's also this are quite bad boom
so how do we solve this been performed
so what you're sort of forming buckets
let's say you've performed then you have
actions depending on action is a shift
or an open or whatever so then you
continue doing this until you eight
bucket as words equal to
your beam size and their sort of
balances out your comparison so you're
comparing shapes against other shapes
this is one way we're sort of getting
around this unbalanced action
probability problem with a fast track a
small amount of shifts so like you'll
take a number significantly smaller than
your p.m. situs like say your beam size
divided by object the top K shapes and
you immediately move those to the next
bucket so this is what I've Illustrated
in the next slide where they do
fast-track nodes and immediately added
to the next bucket questions and in
performance I think it's sort of like
just a little trick that tends to work
well in practice the next problem is as
I mentioned if you have a large beam
size this is gonna slow you down
significant B so you can either take
your entire search tree and cut out
certain nodes that don't need a specific
so instead of taking the softmax on
every single path in your being you have
some sort of algorithm and toast you
take these pipe assets better oh so I'll
go these two these in further detail no
so the first ones are threshold based
what they do is it any given time they
take the best path squirt and compare
that with every single other password
would be and if any of them are true so
what this is basically saying is that
the path for this point is too bad like
it doesn't matter who the next action is
it probably can't recover so an interest
of speed we're just going to cut it out
then they do the same thing on three
standards I can pass at
so you compare the best every single you
just rip drop all of the ones that are a
certain threshold with that and they
find another's in their paper this gives
some significant speed up with a minimal
accuracy you loss so like a trick like
this is worth considering if you need a
large beating but it's too slow
the next one is you can print like the
top of the stack or whatever they just
had this put in there just expand back
and again balance they want to quickly
reduce the number of pins and shapes to
a more reasonable number so like instead
of having 20 opens you might have and
this lets them run their beam searching
to much more balanced reasonable fashion
backtracking paper we'll talk more about
that later but what they do is they both
I guess Ellis tears are sort of trains
separately on goal centered data where
you predict the end outcome
so by cutting off bad path
and simply finish this office it's
exactly what he said but just to give a
concrete example if you I gave them you
didn't follow I think of the sequence
from Earth where a translation that is I
am giving the plot or I am giving a
lecture at CMU and then maybe the first
few words from definitely I am like
there's no other way to translate that
when you're there but once you get to
giving there's you know giving the
talking right so then you have a bunch
of choices so basically you say anything
that doesn't come a problem W higher
than it's always because otherwise I'm a
just and keeping around the fixed size
is often called history of criminal so
if you have a fixed size of a hundred
this histogram based you search and this
one is called probability based coding
or threshold basic routing or something
like or something oh I didn't use that
one else did translation settings and
this youth previous example I am giving
a talk oh you want to predict the end
which one so you can take all the rest
of the sentence and then calculate the
first word
okay that's what I kind of mentioned
already was the heuristic backtracking
pepper oh so all of that algorithm if we
talked about so far just sort of move
forwards once you get to a point there's
no way backwards
I'm saying oh wait this decision was not
a good decision oh so what this paper
did was instead of just sort of doing a
standard game search they would then
look back at every single previous
decision we made and have they were take
that decision there take the second best
decision in that path extend that out to
that I sort of repeat this until you get
a large set of these notes and choose
the best one there
oh so this one was based off of Chris
dyers
stack Elliston cursor we talked about
earlier which gives them basically no
fruit bits or bird redeco named their
great decoder were strong enough that
being searched didn't help but you can
something like this heuristic
backtracking actually give them quite a
bit of a boost
oh and I guess the algorithm it's the
most important decision they take the
best path up until that point and they
take the correct path up into the point
they take the difference between those
which is closest to the best path and
that's what most uncertain one the same
time the best next decision and the
anthers too much so that's looking at
which path is the closest in our
confidence it's the best path and then
also as the best possible decision tree
that we have not explored yet matures
that one to explore so if we look back
at all of the ones up here we talked
about pretty dynamic being search is
sort of similar to the ones where you're
selecting which know it looks bad oh
then when we get to heuristic
backtracking you go all the way to the
end you go backwards which is a
different node to expect
you go all the way to the end and sort
of repeat this and this is a very nice
way of I guess allowing yourself to look
at through the end of the sequence I
suppose
then you can make a better decision the
next problem that I sort of mentioned
was in which case your beam isn't really
going to give you much of an improvement
over greedy decoding Oh
so what we wanted to do is improve the
top best is try to improve the top end
choices each sibling when you expand in
between that sibling and is best mmm so
if you look at an example here the first
one is Eddie he has has the best two
examples which gives you more diversity
in your game will hopefully um they also
did a couple of clever things when they
were choosing which boom they're scoring
their passenger beam translation model
and the language model and they combined
all of those scores to score the game as
opposed to jest the I guess that points
up next
about when you would want diversity so
one to other times when you would want
diversity are when you want to generate
diverse outputs like let's say you want
to do male response recommendation and
you have three options that somebody can
pick if you want to show three options
to people you don't want them all
basically another time is when you're
tuning your model so when you're
optimizing your model based on the
results of your beam search you'll want
to plot some different things in there
so you can basically improve or you can
give it alternatives that give you a
better score in there so this is do you
throw it like this instead of this that
didn't work 300 so in this case they're
doing the conversation there's going to
be more words there like the correct
solution but in conversation there's a
lot of different things you can say yeah
I post going to be much higher a
significant improvement in diversity so
I guess what they do is at each time
step they sample the top being cited as
number of actions from each path and
then they choose the best game science
out of those
and my grams said something like dialog
is contingent a time where you might
want more diversity the next one was a
question that was asked last class you
do not everything to be like words
because those myself have more
probabilities and better translations um
so I guess the sort of simplest way one
of the first ways average distance and
this was done towards paper in 2014 I
guess so
the Google paper did something kind of
complicated
where instead of averaging by the
Lincoln in the sequence and they just
found empirically that this first better
than actually benefits Equus if you want
to this reason every last bit of
performance out of your system you can
try and do something like this if you
don't do a cool thing where they have a
coverage ability so in translation you
want most of your source words to be
translated sentence inside there's some
work this for sentence to remake this is
a lovely just to make sure you're
covering most of the work the news for
sentences and you are coming out of
large chunks of the sentences mmm again
complicated might not be worth it might
be a good competition or something the
next one is going from Japanese English
or Japanese that just reminds me by the
length of the sentence did not work well
so instead
like now it's worse that the sentence
giving feeling for the source sentence
it takes a lot couple of that and that's
apparently like a person who's given
liquid source sentence you can
interpolate that and your sister
calculate the probability of end up with
sentence and this is quite nice because
it's a bit I guess smarter just
memorizing although I guess Google
system works fine for them yeah so I
guess the next one is try a bunch of
different beam sizes if your model is
strong enough
just a quick something like might be a
better solution the gist
I guess the night search mmm and I think
most papers go from somewhere between
250 and visit our site just like this
happened so what a bunch of experiments
see what works best beam search if you
already have an existing decoding model
it's really so a lot of papers that are
published at conferences will do this
just to make their system more
competitive so this is definitely
something to consider using for your
final project it's also searchable or
recent prove your bad luck city who are
at least make it comes to the research
truly is the best P in search
[Music]
you can debug your research because it's
broken
Oh drawbacks as I mentioned before our
tribute ices are slower and then we're
going to have to make good decision
based off like this is something to do
and look at the results it will not
always improve the evaluation metric is
ravaged from last time organization size
this Lincoln says we're getting
progressively shorter which if you
looked at the graphic normalize much
going on so it wasn't really worth
increasing in size so this is just sort
of an interesting side and this is not a
training model so perhaps if you trained
the bottle the same way you decoded
you're going to get better results where
you're keep your K R max is not
differentiable oh she needs to find so
much work around this Oh
so the paper here uses a method very
similar to lasso where they run there's
a certain margin they will accumulate
loss based off with that mm so if you
look at the graphic here I guess sort of
they're going to add that to their loss
function Oh
then when they do back propagation they
still do the sort of gold standard back
propagation but they also have their
immersion base back propagation based on
the points where it drops below the
margin oh so that lets them train using
sort of a lasso esque margin like being
searched oh I guess one thing to note is
when they are expanding after their
actual expansion is just a sort of
centered research once it drops out of
the margin they send her back into the
beam clinics expansion just something to
note the next paper is instead of trying
to do a market based a relaxation of the
K R max to make a sort of a continuous
differentiable for example if you have
your this is being true so if you take
the top two results what you'll do
what you will do next is you will
compare them doing cover this gun we've
been talking about this one period so so
basically the idea um maybe you bring on
the board would be easier but if we have
a whole bunch of hypotheses we have a
big vector full of hypotheses but each
of these hypotheses has a score right um
yeah out of this we couldn't take the
cave arguments and get one Hut vectors
where our first our first vector has one
on the number one best hypothesis and
our second vector has a one on the the
second best hypothesis but if we
multiply this by the embedding vector
then we could get something that has
embeddings for the best two that has
embeddings for the best two hypotheses
and kind of input them into the input
them into the model so in research we
have to do we have to take the ke
arguments of all of our hypotheses and
input the K best things into the model
in order to do research that's like the
definition of deep deep search yeah we
could do it in this way but doing it in
this way is not differentiable we can't
back drop through it but what we'd like
to do is we'd like to come up with a
version of this that is differentiable
so we can do that propagation through
through this yeah the way it works is
basically we create a soft version of
the tailored nets and the way we do this
is we know that each of these will have
a square maybe this is 7.2 maybe this is
6.9 so then we take the K max K max is
is a differentiable or sub differential
operation so this is okay and then given
the K max we calculate a similarity
function between 7.2 and all of the
elements in here and defense similarity
is higher you get a higher score and
then you run us off mix over there so
then basically we get a soft version of
the kr pants where maybe this is 0.9
this is 0.1 this is 0.05 then down here
is 0.9 or 0.85 0.07 etc so basically in
each of these columns the for the first
hole but one best column will have the
highest probability or the one that's
the first best hypothesis will have the
highest probability in the second column
of the second best hypothesis we'll have
bias probability and you can look at the
equations in the paper but basically the
idea is if we make the K Ark mix a soft
K arguments then we can back propagate
through each search and it works
I guess that's mostly
[Music]
any other questions so that's where I
did talk a bit about the protecting the
British
anything else cool so we go into the
next section which they start based
algorithms and for most of these that
I've seen they're used in parsing so
it's still going to be a lot of parsing
and maybe a little bit of empty but you
pick the next path to expand this off of
the tour cost up until that point um so
I guess about this rustic function so
you want the heuristic function to
always underestimate I don't mean us
right well we're not over estimate can
different remote waiters yeah to be
monotonic so you don't want to take a
couple more steps down the path and have
the probability go from decreasing to
suddenly increasing again oh and as long
as you have both of these a star will
hopefully the shortest path to your
target um so what if the initial is
there I mean since the cover of Lebanon
no network
yes okay
oh so what you do is you can put inside
Peter Peace Corps which is your this
outside rubies were is surgery stick and
what this means specifically is this is
sort of inside that that's your inside
cost that's the cost is good to the
current point you're outside cost is you
can think of this as the score of
integrating this by some of the inside
costs for all of the tree outside of
your Craig's been um they use sort of
this to guide their a-star search um
when we get this to neural network land
this is used first we have a really good
example on the board so if you're not
familiar with a star search one of the
reasons why a star search is good is it
tells you how much more am I going to
have to pay to translate to finish the
rest of my actions let's say this
sentence is I live in Pittsburgh you can
kind of guess once you say Pittsburgh
you're done translating you won't have
to do anything more
so basically your wrists it could be
something like zero but if you translate
you if you help put new then basically
no you need another word you might not
know which other word you're gonna eat
but you know and I'm going a little bit
of
an extra where so this is the case maybe
the the probability of these is is
higher for New York therefore new but
for the word new I guess together these
abilities for but you also have your
heuristic here your heuristic would say
something like 0.01 so I'm pretty sure
that it but but here we're doing this
probabilities are hard so let's not be
probability so let's do what
probabilities so the log probability of
0.4 what's up
okay- 1.5 and then this is negative one
point negative 1.2 or something
so this worker this is better but then
we have a heuristic of negative zero
point one versus a heuristic of negative
one so we know we're gonna have a bigger
penalty to expend so the idea is we want
to know how much more we're going to
have to pay in the future based on our
current decision and for inside/outside
you're looking at you're guessing the
score that you're going to have to have
the rest hopefully that that give us a
concrete example Thanks
questions about that
cool so I guess this is the cranberries
oh that's just a typo parsing like
they're they're coarser tags as opposed
to years and what you've only used two
and this gives you a smaller set to work
with which makes a store more
attractable
mmm and then you build up sequences
along the sentence mmm
so for parsing then you can use this to
code everything outside of your current
span you can sum up all of the scores
for both of those and that sort of gives
you an insight or and an out text word
so you can use this to guide your search
um so this part is hopefully pretty
simple but the question here is is who
she is - it's not necessarily because
you're just naively summing up the
inside scores for everything outside of
your current inside oh so - in order to
make this more similar to admissible
heuristic what they do give you a better
idea that's hopefully closer to being
admissible or they'll give you a better
score for the rest of your tree so we've
converted to tree yellows teams before
and I think they use the same woman
one of the ones that we've covered too
so they use sort of a pretty algorithm
that we talked about where you first
evaluate the event
yeah then the difference between the
cost of your current that's completely
right I just wanted to have one more
thing about this paper well two more
things so a star search the heuristic
has to be admissible which means it can
never underestimate the cost of decoding
the entire rest of the sequence if it
underestimates the cost you can get
search errors
and a star search is because your
heuristic cannot underestimate the cost
you you cannot get yes sorry Oh over
yeah sorry over estimating for us yes
you're right okay because if you
underestimate the cost than you then you
pick something that you should be if you
overestimate the cost then you expand
too many things okay right sorry
overestimating us thank you
um so cannot overestimate the cost and
because it cannot overestimate the cost
that also means you have to work really
hard to design it and for something like
a sequence of sequence model it's
basically impossible to design an
admissible heuristic so what you do is
you say it'd be nice to have an
admissible heuristic but it's impossible
so we're just going to create something
called a future cost which is like a
heuristic but it's not admissible and
then we use that to guide our search and
then hopefully that will make our
necessary beam size smaller one other
thing about this paper is this paper is
a little bit confusing because it
conflates two problems it conflates
modeling problems and search problems so
as I mentioned last time modeling
problems occur when your model score is
better but your final evaluation is
worse search problems happen when you
didn't find the hypothesis with the best
model score this is kind of handling
both problems in the same thing so it's
not only doing it's not only adding a
feature cost it's also defining
something that's not trying to predict
your model score but it's trying to
predict other things as well like the
like the sentence length or the blue
score or whatever so in a way this is
kind of like a future cost in a way it's
also kind of like something something
else but it's a nice paper anyway so I
think you should take a look if you're
interested
so a star search mr. Bluebird stick you
have nice guarantees that you go to find
the best ball sport you can just ways to
search homes begin we would need to put
in a bit more work trying to design a
good heuristic but stuff like the
previous paper which is I guess a star
search inspired how to do scenarios like
machine translation and could be worth
trying
well there's also a bunch of other so
chakras and it's done quickly go over
are similar to it you search but I said
if just having a beam times and you're
going to let your beam energy based off
the coast searching you are translate a
word you're less certain about what your
beams has to be larger
so this works by then you divide your
protocols up through the Kurt's
constituents like the current path so
higher probability paths will have more
particles or probability paths will have
less particles if you have a couple of
paths they're going to get all the
particles but if you have a much flatter
distribution each time you expand it you
take all the paths in their current I
guess you mess it work expand all of
those reallocate the particles but if
they're much more imbalance in your
action space so again a compared after
the same number of shifts so you have a
shift so this is pretty similar to beam
search but it is nice if you want a
printing s solution without actually
printing this is simply you just sample
you basically just simple 20 20 or so
paths but what I was going to see if I
were right I thought this was kind of
like the sampling based version of
dynamic deep search where you prove
based on threshold
so I won't see you might be right yeah
I'll make a million peanuts or something
with you would you have a point four
point three so you would give Pittsburgh
okay the next one's not really searched
but I think the kind of pull models you
can use one of them to rank the outputs
of the first one
and choose the best one
oh you can do something similar with
more models so for example if you have a
generator time senator parsers have
features that the discriminative ones
don't have so what you can do you can
rescore all those a few general remarks
and sort those and they found that this
does better than generating with your
vendors you can have two of the same
model discriminative model trains
different from yours generate and that
does work so that is one other solution
then the last one which hasn't been
wildly used but I guess you have your
tree a person you choose that's word to
every single new along that path then
when you're choosing which know to
expend you sort of have an exploration
exploitation try not bad you leave
before you know it's that
get your scarf home so you have this I
guess excuse me used to be one versus
what's their goal sport in this mode and
it will give you a nice balance between
exploring and I think that's because
searching in general models is going to
be slightly more complicated you're
going to have problems like that any
balance which means you want to be using
more complaint for Falcone's beyond just
storing on it being searched I think is
pretty much it so we're bit early didn't
have any questions about any of this
so I think my personal my personal view
is that you should you should do beam
search like in almost any model you're
gonna do you're gonna get a few points
by doing beam search so it's a good
thing to add to your model if you want
to get good results as long as it's a
structured prediction model of course if
you're not doing structured prediction
you don't care at all about search but
if you're doing structured prediction
you will need some sort of search
algorithm um something like future costs
are very are very attractive because we
can probably predict them very
accurately with neural networks because
we have LS um so I think that would be
something very good to integrate into
your model but it will be significantly
harder than just doing the search so if
you're doing something like a generative
model that has big search problems and
something like a future bus would also
be very good a star is very difficult
because you need an admissible heuristic
and for neural models with infinite
context it's extremely difficult to come
up with an admissible heuristic so um
the CCG parsing papers one very good
example of how to do that but it's
no I think they just predict the amount
of model score until the end of the
sentence so it's not they're not doing
anything tricky like that um the the CCG
parsing paper is doing something a
little bit tricky so it has a local
model and in the local model you can do
stuff like dynamic programming which
allows you to calculate a heuristic
function efficiently and then there
global model is a model that conditions
on everything but that global model can
only penalize can only penalize the
local model which means the local model
will never will never overestimate yeah
the local but the local model will never
overestimate which is which is what you
want for the heuristic function so um
that one they did they did something
tricky and they got it to work
so if you want to do a star search then
you'll have to do something you'll
probably have to do something like where
you have something that you can
calculate efficiently then you have
something more complicated that only
penalize it's the thing that you can
calculate efficiently so it's a it's a
beautiful paper but it's not super easy
well other method is not differentiable
it's it's a way to define a loss
function but it's it's a little bit
different than like actually I think
they're both good they're both good
methods
[Music]
um I don't know the details of what
you're but it sounds interesting if you
if you were doing if you were doing
truncated backprop with the objective
other than likelihood like like blue
score or whatever asre accuracy or
something then maybe maybe yes
okay um I think we'll wrap up thanks
everyone